# PEP 0008
#bachelor/implementation/pep008

<u>Here will be written down relevant conventions from Style Guide for Python Code.</u>

## Naming Conventions
The naming conventions of Python's library are a bit of a mess, so we'll never get this completely consistent -- nevertheless, here are the currently recommended naming standards. New modules and packages (including third party frameworks) should be written to these standards, but where an existing library has a different style, internal consistency is preferred.


### Package and Module Names
Modules should have short, all-lowercase names. Underscores can be used in the module name if it improves readability. Python packages should also have short, all-lowercase names, although the use of underscores is discouraged.

When an extension module written in C or C++ has an accompanying Python module that provides a higher level (e.g. more object oriented) interface, the C/C++ module has a leading underscore (e.g. _socket ).

### Class Names
Class names should normally use the CapWords convention.

The naming convention for functions may be used instead in cases where the interface is documented and used primarily as a callable.

Note that there is a separate convention for builtin names: most builtin names are single words (or two words run together), with the CapWords convention used only for exception names and builtin constants.

### Function Names
Function names should be lowercase, with words separated by underscores as necessary to improve readability.

mixedCase is allowed only in contexts where that's already the prevailing style (e.g. threading.py), to retain backwards compatibility.

### Function and method arguments
**Always use self for the first argument to instance methods.**

**Always use cls for the first argument to class methods.**

If a function argument's name clashes with a reserved keyword, it is generally better to append a single trailing underscore rather than use an abbreviation or spelling corruption. Thus class_ is better than clss . (Perhaps better is to avoid such clashes by using a synonym.)

### Method Names and Instance Variables
Use the function naming rules: lowercase with words separated by underscores as necessary to improve readability.

Use one leading underscore only for non-public methods and instance variables.

To avoid name clashes with subclasses, use two leading underscores to invoke Python's name mangling rules.

Python mangles these names with the class name: if class Foo has an attribute named __a , it cannot be accessed by Foo.__a . (An insistent user could still gain access by calling Foo._Foo__a .) Generally, double leading underscores should be used only to avoid name conflicts with attributes in classes designed to be subclassed.

Note: there is some controversy about the use of __names (see below).

### Constants
**Constants are usually defined on a module level** and written in all capital letters with underscores separating words. Examples include MAX_OVERFLOW and TOTAL .

### Designing for inheritance

Always decide whether a class's methods and instance variables (collectively: "attributes") should be public or non-public. **If in doubt, choose non-public;** it's easier to make it public later than to make a public attribute non-public.

We don't use the term "private" here, since no attribute is really private in Python (without a generally unnecessary amount of work).

With this in mind, here are the Pythonic guidelines:

* Public attributes should have no leading underscores.

* **If your public attribute name collides with a reserved keyword, append a single trailing underscore to your attribute name.**

* **For simple public data attributes, it is best to expose just the attribute name, without complicated accessor/mutator methods**. Keep in mind that Python provides an easy path to future enhancement, should you find that a simple data attribute needs to grow functional behavior. In that case, use properties to hide functional implementation behind simple data attribute access syntax.

Note 1: Properties only work on new-style classes.

Note 2: Try to keep the functional behavior side-effect free, although side-effects such as caching are generally fine.

Note 3: Avoid using properties for computationally expensive operations; the attribute notation makes the caller believe that access is (relatively) cheap.

_If your class is intended to be subclassed, and you have attributes that you do not want subclasses to use, consider naming them with double leading underscores and no trailing underscores. This invokes Python's name mangling algorithm, where the name of the class is mangled into the attribute name. This helps avoid attribute name collisions should subclasses inadvertently contain attributes with the same name._

Note 1: Note that only the simple class name is used in the mangled name, so if a subclass chooses both the same class name and attribute name, you can still get name collisions.

Note 2: Name mangling can make certain uses, such as debugging and __getattr__() , less convenient. However the name mangling algorithm is well documented and easy to perform manually.

Note 3: Not everyone likes name mangling. Try to balance the need to avoid accidental name clashes with potential use by advanced callers.

Public and internal interfaces
Any backwards compatibility guarantees apply only to public interfaces. Accordingly, it is important that users be able to clearly distinguish between public and internal interfaces.

Documented interfaces are considered public, unless the documentation explicitly declares them to be provisional or internal interfaces exempt from the usual backwards compatibility guarantees. All undocumented interfaces should be assumed to be internal.

To better support introspection, modules should explicitly declare the names in their public API using the __all__ attribute. Setting __all__ to an empty list indicates that the module has no public API.

Even with __all__ set appropriately, internal interfaces (packages, modules, classes, functions, attributes or other names) should still be prefixed with a single leading underscore.

An interface is also considered internal if any containing namespace (package, module or class) is considered internal.

Imported names should always be considered an implementation detail. Other modules must not rely on indirect access to such imported names unless they are an explicitly documented part of the containing module's API, such as os.path or a package's __init__ module that exposes functionality from submodules.


## Programming Recommendations
When implementing ordering operations with rich comparisons, it is best to implement all six operations ( __eq__ , __ne__ , __lt__ , __le__ , __gt__ , __ge__ ) rather than relying on other code to only exercise a particular comparison.


Always use a def statement instead of an assignment statement that binds a lambda expression directly to an identifier.

Yes:
* def f(x): return 2*x
No:
* f = lambda x: 2*x

When binding caught exceptions to a name, prefer the explicit name binding syntax added in Python 2.6:

try:
    process_data()
except Exception as exc:
    raise DataProcessingFailedError(str(exc))
This is the only syntax supported in Python 3, and avoids the ambiguity problems associated with the older comma-based syntax.

**Additionally, for all try/except clauses, limit the try clause to the absolute minimum amount of code necessary. Again, this avoids masking bugs.**

Yes:

try:
    value = collection[key]
except KeyError:
    return key_not_found(key)
else:
    return handle_value(value)


**Be consistent in return statements.** Either all return statements in a function should return an expression, or none of them should. If any return statement returns an expression, any return statements where no value is returned should explicitly state this as return None , and an explicit return statement should be present at the end of the function (if reachable).

Yes:

def foo(x):
    if x >= 0:
        return math.sqrt(x)
    else:
        return None

**Object type comparisons should always use isinstance() instead of comparing types directly.**

Yes: if isinstance(obj, int):

No:  if type(obj) is type(1):

**For sequences, (strings, lists, tuples), use the fact that empty sequences are false.**

Yes: if not seq:
     if seq:

No: if len(seq):
    if not len(seq):


**Don't compare boolean values to True or False using == .**

Yes:   if greeting:
No:    if greeting == True:
Worse: if greeting is True:
- - - -
from - PEP 8 -- Style Guide for Python Code | Python.org. (n.d.). Retrieved April 22, 2017, from https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
